#summary Status report for week 6.

= Introduction =
Status report for week 6.


= Details =

Razvan Alecsandrescu: 

== Tasks programmed until 11.13.2008: ==

* Database
* Server
* Testing
* Documentation

== Tasks completed (11.11.2008) ==

* Documentation
* Database
* Server (40%)
* Modules (10%)

I'm on schedule. Actually a little ahead of schedule but I haven't started running into the really difficult problems of this project. And I also rule so that's a plus.

== Encountered problems and changes performed ==

No significant problems encountered. Spent some time searching for the best method to load classes dynamically ( parsing modules can and will be added to the project later and this shouldn't mean that the project must be rebuilt).

== Self-assessment ==
As always yours truly shows outstanding coding skills, motivation and may I say signs of genius. Modesty is another one of my qualities.

== Assessment of technologies used ==
They work. The right tools for the right job.

== ? ==
* Best caching solution for searches and answers.
* Best entry point for C code.


== Claudia Tanase ==

== Tasks programmed until 13.11.2008: ==

* Kernel module which intercepts system calls
* Testing the kernel module
* Documentation


== Tasks completed (11.11.2008) ==

* Kernel module(80%)
* Userspace module to communicate with the kernel module and server (10%)
* Documentation

== Encountered problems and changes performed ==

Added a userspace module to ease communication between my kernel module(interceptor)(C) and the server in userspace(Java). One problem encountered was how to ensure the asynchronous flow of information between these modules.

== Self-assessment ==

I am on schedule, taking into account that there were some design changes.

== Assessment of technologies used ==

The solution to the asynchronous communication was the use of netlink sockets. They seem to do their job. 